So, hello and welcome to FOSDEM 2023 and I hope everyone is awake and looking forward
to two days packed with lots of talks, at least I am.
And we, that's Christy, Thorsten and me, we are the organizers or deaf room managers
for this room, so if you have any questions, you can approach us, we are here to guide
through the day and we are also the ones who submitted the idea of the sovereign cloud
deaf room to the FOSDEM and we did that because, well, with our day work, we actually work
in that space, so Thorsten is from the Operate First project by Red Hat, I work on the sovereign
cloud stack, which is also a project that is centered with a focus on sovereign cloud
infrastructure and standards and of course, as we work with that on a day to day base,
we think it's an important topic and also the term sovereignty, digital sovereignty
is often a term that is used a lot lately and it actually needs proper definition and
it also, there needs to be a discussion about it, what it actually means and what is needed
in order to work towards sovereign infrastructure and that, if you look at the talks that are
happening today in this room, that will be discussed a lot and, yeah, I don't really
have much more to add to that, Thorsten, do you want to?
Again, yeah, so I'm working with Red Hat and I'm in the Project Operate First, which
is the idea of open operations, you can see the stickers here and if you want to pick
them up, the idea there is that we offer more or less free service by where you can open
up your own Kubernetes clusters, you can deploy your project there and you have also a kind
of open SRE there because you can see the different infrastructure data and so that's
the basic idea of open operations and with open operations, you get the chance to be
sovereign with your data because it's easy to move, it's easy to see and we are totally
hybrid so it doesn't matter if it's on your own premise or in whatever cloud or you're
switching in between, so Operate First is kind of the idea, one of the proof of concept
that the idea of sovereign cloud can work in a practical idea.
Hi, I'm Kristin Nicola, I'm a software engineer with Boston University, I work on the MOC
Alliance project out of Boston University whose goal is to create an open cloud for
academia but not only, I also work on OpenStack, I am on the OpenStack Technical Committee
and I am a maintainer of the OpenStack Keystone project which is for identity management,
I also work on varying degrees on Operate First with Thorstein on Open Infra Labs and
on various acronym rich things like NERC, Nessie, etc.
And working on open source and having worked on deploying and maintaining open clouds,
the topic of sovereign clouds is very important to me and I see it as the next step in not
just opening up the telemetry and how you're deploying it and how you're running it but
also opening up the governance and all of those other aspects to actually create a place
where everyone can contribute to on all aspects of the cloud and not just take what you're
doing and apply it to a different degree.
So with that I, Boston already had the first highlight for me because I did not know that
you are the PTL for Keystone so that's really useful for me to know because we just submitted
patches to Keystone for federated authentication and so we should really talk a lot more.
So with that the first one who will talk will be my colleague Max and he will prepare and
then we will give a proper introduction to Max and start with that in 10 minutes, right?
Yeah, in 10 minutes, right.
And feel free, here's some candy, some chocolate, if you want to, there are stickers there and
yeah enjoy the day, right?